The Sokal affair, also called the Sokal hoax,[1] was a demonstrative 
scholarly hoax performed by Alan Sokal, a physics professor at New York 
University and University College London. In 1996, Sokal submitted an article 
to Social Text, an academic journal of postmodern cultural studies. The 
submission was an experiment to test the journal's intellectual rigor, and 
specifically to investigate whether "a leading North American journal of 
cultural studies—whose editorial collective includes such luminaries as 
Fredric Jameson and Andrew Ross—[would] publish an article liberally salted 
with nonsense if (a) it sounded good and (b) it flattered the editors' 
ideological preconceptions
The article, "Transgressing the Boundaries: Towards a Transformative 
Hermeneutics of Quantum Gravity",[3] was published in the journal's spring/
summer 1996 "Science Wars" issue. It proposed that quantum gravity is a 
social and linguistic construct. At that time, the journal did not practice 
academic peer review and it did not submit the article for outside expert 
review by a physicist.[4][5] Three weeks after its publication in May 1996, 
Sokal revealed in the magazine Lingua Franca that the article was a hoax
The hoax caused controversy about the scholarly merit of commentary on the 
physical sciences by those in the humanities; the influence of postmodern 
philosophy on social disciplines in general; academic ethics, including 
whether Sokal was wrong to deceive the editors and readers of Social Text; 
and whether Social Text had exercised appropriate intellectual rigor.
